Yakub Adar 
Data Scientist 

yakubadar99@gmail.com 

+49 1732521024 

Neuss, Deutschland 

SKILLS 

MS Oﬃce 

R 

Python 

SQL 

React & Next.js 

HTML 

Javascript 

typescript 

C++ 

GIT 

Docker 

LANGUAGES 

German 
Native or Bilingual Proﬁciency 

English 
Native or Bilingual Proﬁciency 

Turkish 
Native or Bilingual Proﬁciency 

French 
Limited Working Proﬁciency 

INTERESTS 

Refereeing 

Running 

Cooking 

Traveling 

WORK EXPERIENCE 

Data Scientist 
Deutsche Glasfaser 
01/2023 - Present,  

Achievements/Tasks 

Düsseldorf, Deutschland 

Performed geospatial analysis using geographic data with Geopandas and Spatial SQL. 

Applied Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques for text and sentiment analysis. 

Utilized XGBoost and Decision Trees for classiﬁcation, regression, and predictive modeling
tasks, enhancing decision-making processes and model performance. 

Developed and implemented an AI chatbot for automated customer support. 

Applied time series analysis methods, including Linear and Regressional Analytics, for
forecasting and identifying seasonal patterns. 

Developed applications using tkinter for selecting road surface segments to predict their
condition with models, as well as for interactive ﬁltering and visualization of Excel data. 

Created a comprehensive interface for fraud detection to compare construction company
images in state-aid projects using Vision Transformer (ViT). 

Internship and project-management 
HHU Institute of Computational Cell Biology 
08/2021 - 03/2023,  

Achievements/Tasks 

Düsseldorf, Germany 

Data analysis and visualization using Python to extract insights and present ﬁndings eﬀectively. 

Managed independent projects utilizing SIFT4G, applying Python and C++ for robust and
eﬃcient implementations. 

Conducted heads or tails (HOT) analysis using Python and C++, focusing on genetic and
molecular data interpretation. 

Internship in research 
HHU Institute of Quantitative Genetics and Genomics of Plants 
05/2020 - 10/2020,  

Düsseldorf, Germany 

Achievements/Tasks 

Conducted QTL analysis in Quantitative Genetics to link genetic markers with traits. 

Performed statistical data analysis using R for interpreting and visualizing data. 

Conducted ﬁeld research, including data collection and experimental design. 

Employed Decision Trees for decision-making processes and predictive modeling. 

EDUCATION 

Master of Science - Biology with a focus on Artiﬁcial Intelligence &
Data Science 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität 
10/2020 - 03/2023,  

Düsseldorf, 2.1 

Courses 

Thesis on: Evaluating the impact of sequence alignment variation on the prediction of the
eﬀects of genetic mutations on phenotypes 

Bachelor of Science - Biology 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität 
10/2017 - 10/2020,  

Courses 

Bachelor-thesis on Quantitative Genetics Analysis on Barley (with R) 

Düsseldorf, 2.7 

